## Policies

**Attendance.** This class will be held in person, and you are strongly encouraged to attend as many lectures as you can in person. However, the course will also be streamed on Zoom and the recording made available through Canvas for later viewing. If you are sick (COVID or non-COVID illness), please do not come to class, but rather attend over Zoom or watch the recording. You are also welcome to take advantage of the Zoom option for other reasons that cause you to not be able to attend lecture in person. Attending over Zoom will never be held against you or affect your grade in any way. But to stress again, please come to class in person when you are able. This class works best when the room is full of students are actively participating, discussing, and asking questions.

**Getting Help.** Take advantage of office hours. We will work hard to be accessible to students. Please send us email if you need to meet outside of scheduled office hours. Don't be shy if you don't understand something: come to office hours, send email, or speak up in class! We will use Piazza for asking questions, discussing topics from class, and getting help on homeworks. I encourage you to post questions there publicly for the entire class and to chime in with answers to other students' questions.

**Announcements.** Important announcements, such as assignment corrections or deadline changes, will be sent to the class via the Canvas announcements for this class. Make sure that you have setup Canvas to send you announcements to an email address that you will check regularly, as they may be time-sensitive.

**Grading.** The course grade will consist of 4-5, equally-weighted, homeworks.

Homework assignments will entail writing Python code to solve problems as well as written questions. Submissions must be Jupyter notebooks, which lets you combine formatted text and Python code in an easy-to-use format.

Homeworks are due by 11:59 PM on the due date. Late assignments will receive a 10% deduction during the first 24 hours they are late, and a 20% deduction if they are 24-48 hours late. Assignments will not be accepted beyond 48 hours late.

If you believe there is an error in grading, you may request a regrading within one week of receiving your grade. Requests must be made in writing by email, explaining clearly why you think there was an error in your grade.

Letter grade score ranges:

| Letter | Score Range |
| ------ | ----------- |
| A+ | 98 - 100 |
| -- | ---------|
| A  | 93 - 97  |
| -- | -------- |
| A- | 90 - 92  |
| -- | -------- |
| B+ | 87 - 89  |
| -- | -------- |
| B  | 83 - 86  |
| -- | -------- |
| B- | 80 - 82  |
| -- | -------- |
| C+ | 77 - 79  |
| -- | ---------|
| C  | 73 - 76  |
| -- | -------- |
| C- | 70 - 72  |
| -- | -------- |
| D+ | 67 - 69  |
| -- | -------- |
| D  | 63 - 66  |
| -- | -------- |
| D- | 60 - 62  |
| -- | -------- |
| F  | 0 - 59   |
| -- | -------- |

**Working Together.** You are welcome to discuss the concepts in a homework
assignment with your fellow classmates. However, you must develop and write up
your own solutions. Do not read another person's answers or code, and do not
show your answers or code to anyone else. Presenting someone else's solutions as
your own will be considered cheating. Using code you find on the internet is
also not allowed.

You are welcome to use any online sources for learning concepts, example
problems, programming tips, etc. However, posting answers to homework questions
on the internet, or directly copying answers to specific questions from the
internet, is not allowed and is considered cheating. *You must cite any sources
(online or otherwise) that you used to complete your homework.*

*Use of AI:* The use of generative AI (e.g., chatbots such as ChatGPT) to assist
in performing homework is permitted. The same rules as for any other online
source apply, namely, you should write up the solution on your own (do not copy
ChatGPT verbatim), and you should cite the AI tool that you used, including
giving the prompts that you submitted. Finally, while AI tools are allowed, it
is *strongly* recommended that you always attempt homework problems on your own
first. You'll learn the material better if you think it through first! Use AI to
enhance your learning, not to "do the work for you".

You should be familiar with the UVA [https://honor.virginia.edu/](Honor Code). If a student
is caught cheating on a homework or final project, they will be reported to the Honor Committee.

**Students with disabilities or learning needs.**

It is my goal to create a learning experience that is as accessible as
possible. If you anticipate any issues related to the format, materials, or
requirements of this course, please meet with me outside of class so we can
explore potential options. Students with disabilities may also wish to work with
the Student Disability Access Center (SDAC) to discuss a range of options to
removing barriers in this course, including official accommodations. We are
fortunate to have an SDAC advisor, Courtney MacMasters, physically located in
Engineering. You may email her at
[mailto:cmacmasters@virginia.edu](cmacmasters@virginia.edu) to schedule an
appointment. For general questions please visit the SDAC website:
[https://sdac.studenthealth.virginia.edu](https://sdac.studenthealth.virginia.edu). If
you have already been approved for accommodations through SDAC, please send me
your accommodation letter and meet with me so we can develop an implementation
plan together.

**Religious accommodations.**

It is the University's long-standing policy and practice to reasonably
accommodate students so that they do not experience an adverse academic
consequence when sincerely held religious beliefs or observances conflict with
academic requirements.

Students who wish to request academic accommodation for a religious observance
should submit their request in writing directly to me by email as far in advance
as possible. Students who have questions or concerns about academic
accommodations for religious observance or religious beliefs may contact the
University’s Office for Equal Opportunity and Civil Rights (EOCR) at
[mailto:UVAEOCR@virginia.edu](UVAEOCR@virginia.edu) or 434-924-3200.

**Harassment, Discrimination, and Interpersonal Violence.**

The University of Virginia is dedicated to providing a safe and equitable
learning environment for all students. If you or someone you know has been
affected by power-based personal violence, more information can be found on the
[https://www.virginia.edu/sexualviolence](UVA Sexual Violence website) that
describes reporting options and resources available
- [https://www.virginia.edu/sexualviolence](www.virginia.edu/sexualviolence).

The same resources and options for individuals who experience sexual misconduct
are available for discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation. [https://uvapolicy.virginia.edu/policy/HRM-009](UVA prohibits
discrimination and harassment) based on age, color, disability, family medical
or genetic information, gender identity or expression, marital status, military
status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, pregnancy (including
childbirth and related conditions), race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or
veteran status. [https://uvapolicy.virginia.edu/policy/HRM-010](UVA policy) also
prohibits retaliation for reporting such behavior.

If you witness or are aware of someone who has experienced prohibited conduct,
you are encouraged to submit a report to
[https://justreportit.virginia.edu/](Just Report It) (justreportit.virginia.edu)
or [mailto:UVAEOCR@virginia.edu](contact EOCR), the office of Equal Opportunity
and Civil Rights.

If you would prefer to disclose such conduct to a confidential resource where
what you share is not reported to the University, you can turn to
[https://www.studenthealth.virginia.edu/caps](Counseling & Psychological
Services (“CAPS”)) and
[https://womenscenter.virginia.edu/counseling/our-counseling-services](Women's
Center Counseling Staff and Confidential Advocates) (for students of all
genders).

As your professor and as a person, know that I care about you and your
well-being and stand ready to provide support and resources as I can. As a
faculty member, I am a responsible employee, which means that I am required by
University policy and by federal law to report certain kinds of conduct that you
report to me to the University's Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX
Coordinator's job is to ensure that the reporting student receives the resources
and support that they need, while also determining whether further action is
necessary to ensure survivor safety and the safety of the University community.

**Support for your career development**

Engaging in your career development is an important part of your student
experience. For example, presenting at a research conference, attending an
interview for a job or internship, or participating in an extern/shadowing
experience are not only necessary steps on your path but are also invaluable
lessons in and of themselves. I wish to encourage and support you in activities
related to your career development. To that end, please notify me by email as
far in advance as possible to arrange for appropriate accommodations.

**Student support team**

You have many resources available to you when you experience academic or
personal stresses. In addition to your professor, the School of Engineering and
Applied Science has staff members located in Thornton Hall who you can contact
to help manage academic or personal challenges. Please do not wait until the end
of the semester to ask for help!

**Learning**

[https://engineering.virginia.edu/current-students/current-undergraduate-students/student-support/academic-coaching](Lisa Lampe), Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Affairs
Director of Student Success (search underway)
[mailto:cmacmasters@virginia.edu](Courtney MacMasters), Accessibility Specialist
[https://engineering.virginia.edu/current-students/current-undergraduate-students/student-support/tutoring](Free tutoring) is available for most classes.

**Health and Wellbeing**

[mailto:mwu5gs@virginia.edu](Kelly Garrett), Assistant Dean of Students, Student Safety and Support
Elizabeth Ramirez-Weaver, CAPS counselor
Katie Fowler, CAPS counselor

You may schedule time with the CAPS counselors through
[https://www.studenthealth.virginia.edu/getting-started-caps](Student Health)
(https://www.studenthealth.virginia.edu/getting-started-caps). When scheduling,
be sure to specify that you are an Engineering student. You are also urged to
use [https://www.studenthealth.virginia.edu/timelycare](TimelyCare) for either
scheduled or on-demand 24/7 mental health care.

**Community and Identity**

The
[https://engineering.virginia.edu/about/diversity-and-engagement/center-diversity-engineering](Center
for Diversity in Engineering) (CDE) is a student space dedicated to advocating
for underrepresented groups in STEM. It exists to connect students with the
academic, financial, health, and community resources they need to thrive both at
UVA and in the world. The CDE includes an open study area, event space, and
staff members on site. Through this space, we affirm and empower equitable
participation toward intercultural fluency and provide the resources necessary
for students to be successful during their academic journey and future careers.
